# colors

A library for generating color palettes from a given color.


## API Reference

<!-- api -->
<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

### Table of Contents

*   [constructor][1]
    *   [Parameters][2]
*   [toString][3]
*   [complementary][4]
*   [splitComplementary][5]
*   [triadic][6]
*   [tetradic][7]
*   [monochromatic][8]
    *   [Parameters][9]
*   [analogous][10]
    *   [Parameters][11]

## constructor

### Parameters

*   `h` **[number][12]** Hue in degrees (0-360)
*   `s` **[number][12]** Saturation (0-1)
*   `v` **[number][12]** Value (0-1)

## toString

Returns a string representation of the color in the form "hsv(h,s,v)",
where h is the hue in degrees, s is the saturation, and v is the value.

Returns **[string][13]**&#x20;

## complementary

Returns a color that is the complementary color of this color.
The complementary color is the color directly across the color wheel
from this color.

Returns **Color**&#x20;

## splitComplementary

Returns an array of two colors that are split complementary to this color.
Split complementary colors are colors that are adjacent to the complementary
color of this color on the color wheel.

Returns **[Array][14]\<Color>**&#x20;

## triadic

Returns an array of two colors that are triadic to this color.
Triadic colors are colors that are equally spaced from this color on the color wheel.

Returns **[Array][14]\<Color>**&#x20;

## tetradic

Returns an array of three colors that are tetradic to this color.
Tetradic colors are four colors arranged into two complementary pairs
on the color wheel. This method returns the three colors that complete
the tetradic scheme based on this color.

Returns **[Array][14]\<Color>**&#x20;

## monochromatic

Returns an array of n colors that are monochromatic to this color.
Monochromatic colors are colors that have the same hue as this color.
The colors returned will have the same hue as this color, but with
value and saturation increasing or decreasing by the given step size.
The value and saturation of the colors will be increased or decreased
depending on the value of d.

### Parameters

*   `n` **[number][12]** The number of colors to generate. Defaults to 3. (optional, default `3`)
*   `d` **[number][12]** A number that determines whether the colors will be
    generated in a positive or negative direction. 1
    will generate colors with increasing saturation and
    value, while -1 will generate colors with decreasing
    saturation and value. Defaults to 1. (optional, default `1`)

Returns **[Array][14]\<Color>**&#x20;

## analogous

Returns an array of colors that are analogous to this color.
Analogous colors are colors that are adjacent to each other on the color wheel.
This method generates `n` analogous colors by varying the hue of this color.

### Parameters

*   `n` **[number][12]** The number of analogous colors to generate. Defaults to 3. (optional, default `3`)

Returns **[Array][14]\<Color>**&#x20;

[1]: #constructor

[2]: #parameters

[3]: #tostring

[4]: #complementary

[5]: #splitcomplementary

[6]: #triadic

[7]: #tetradic

[8]: #monochromatic

[9]: #parameters-1

[10]: #analogous

[11]: #parameters-2

[12]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number

[13]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String

[14]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array

<!-- apistop -->
